# A Traveler's Heart– on Earth and Beyond

> “I seek a place that can never be destroyed, one that is pure, and that fadeth not away, and it is laid up in heaven, and safe there, to be given, at the time appointed, to them that seek it with all their heart.”

> –John Bunyan
<div style="column-count: 2; column-gap: 20px;">
As I poured out my anguish, sharing the pain of not seeing my family for over three years, my friend paused and gently asked, “What does home mean to you?”. The memory of that conversation as we walked by the Columbia Law School on West 116th Street still lingers in my mind, vivid and clear as if it happened just yesterday. At that time, it had been over three years since I last set foot in Ethiopia due to the COVID-19 travel restrictions and the subsequent civil war. This seemingly simple yet profoundly thoughtful question continues to echo in my mind, stirring a well of hidden emotions and prompting this particular reflection. 
</div>

When the question was first posed to me almost two years ago, my initial response was instinctive–I wanted to say “Ethiopia.” Perhaps I even said that aloud. However, I quickly realized my response was heavily influenced by my physical absence from my motherland. Having spent 16 years there, I understand that home is not merely my country or the people in their entirety. 

Memories flooded back—the nine different schools I attended, the three distinct regions we lived in, and the six or seven neighborhoods we called home at various times. My thoughts were scattered, unsure of how to articulate a sense of home when my life had been marked by frequent relocations, almost every year or two. For a girl who didn’t own a phone until her sixteenth birthday, each new school or neighborhood also meant the end of relationships. In the midst of this conversation, I realized that my strongest connections were with my mother and brother, rather than any specific place. They had been my constant companions throughout these transitions, until I left for Singapore in 2017. While I treasure my family as a blessing from God Almighty, and they are deeply important to me, defining home solely in relation to them felt incomplete.

As I stood in the company of my friend, I longed for the sense of rootedness others find in their childhood homes, where rooms remain unchanged, or in neighborhoods where their journey from childhood to adulthood is well remembered—a connection I felt I hadn't fully experienced. I envied their ability to return to schools and neighborhoods with deep, nostalgic ties like those often portrayed in movies. Simply put, I yearned for familiarity–in both people and places.

At the same time, I was deeply grateful for these continuous encounters with new environments and communities, each offering something fresh to fascinate, uncover, and understand. It’s a beautiful experience that I know never to take for granted. I also see how this journey reflects God’s mercy in my life, training me for the path He is leading me toward in service to Him. These constant relocations have fostered a certain kind of dependence on God as I walk in the unknown, and while my heart sometimes forgets it, His Spirit never ceases to remind me that I am not walking alone. And that I shall not seek to be independent of Him for He holds the whole universe and my every step. 

> Now, almost two years later, you might think that after all this movement, I would get used to not being rooted. Yet, the desire to define “home” has only grown more intense. I yearn for stability, for a close-knit community, and for the warmth of enduring friendships—longings amplified by the distance from my family and the scattered nature of friendships forged across continents. I must confess, the repeated cycle of building and then leaving has at times made me hesitant to form new relationships, as I feared the near-future goodbyes that lay ahead.

Amidst this uncertainty, by God’s providence, I have come to treasure the journey itself for what it has been reminding me of lately—a metaphor for my Christian faith, where I am a traveler, not yet home. A pilgrim roaming through the pains and pleasures, the valleys and peaks of this world, in hope of the glorious one to come. This is a shared reality, not just for me, but for all who believe in the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ [John 11: 25-26], the Son of God who took away the sins of the world [John 1:26]. 

I now see how the dissatisfaction stemming from lacking rootedness serves as a window to a deeper truth—my soul’s restlessness away from its true heavenly home. Just as my earthly journey lacks roots, it reminds me not to seek permanence or solace in the transient places of this world. In this discomfort, I’ve come to realize that living as a foreigner is a blessing in itself, for it keeps me aware of my distance from the Celestial City. I specifically call it a blessing because of the magnitude of the eternal glory it points me toward, day by day. 

Such description of the Christian life as a pilgrimage on earth is a recurring theme in the Scriptures. In the New Testament, we see the apostle Peter addressing the Christians in Asia Minor as “foreigners and exiles,” reminding them of their temporary status here on earth [1 Peter 2:11]. And in the gospels, we find Jesus Himself continuously reminding His disciples of such truth [John 15:19]. To my astonishment, when I first began to connect this realization with that of my physical reality, it felt as though I was living in two overlapping worlds: as a literal foreigner in another man’s land (or “alien,” as the U.S. government so kindly calls me), and as a heavenly citizen, sojourning through this earthly life.

And in the moments when my heart aches over this reality again, I’ve found deep comfort in the words of saint Paul: “For we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God, an eternal house in heaven, not built by human hands” [2 Corinthians 5:1]. And even more through the vision revealed to the beloved disciple of Christ, John the Evangelist: “He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away” [Revelations 22:4]. 
As I meditate on these words, I can’t help but smile. What a glorious day it will be when I finally stand face-to-face with the One who called me by name, loved me despite my rebellion, chose me despite my unworthiness—the One who redeemed my soul on His cross and shone a marvelous light into my immense darkness.

I must admit, my personal experience of home is deeply tied to places in this reflection. For some of us, it may not be the place that makes thinking of home difficult—it might be the people. Perhaps it’s the absence of a father or mother, or maybe they were physically present but emotionally distant. They might not have known how to care for you, simply because they never were cared for themselves. Or perhaps they just failed in their role as parents, without any clear explanation. In these cases, thinking of home can be painful, not because of the physical space, but because of the members. Sadly, what was meant to foster joy, it brought sorrow. Instead of offering refuge, at times, it stirred distress.

I, too, know something about broken households, but that’s a story for another time. The more I listen and observe, the more I’m convinced that there is no such thing as a perfect home for it would mean perfect parents, perfect children, and a perfect place. But that doesn’t mean we don’t love our families. For most of us, despite their flaws and limitations, our families still hold a central place in our hearts—sometimes too central. And I’ll be the first to admit that family can become an idol.

So what hope is there for those of us coming from broken homes? The same one! The same heavenly home will be filled with a perfect family of brothers and sisters, all transformed to reflect the perfect image of the Son of God, Jesus Christ, with our perfect heavenly Father gloriously dwelling in our midst. In all that we lack in our earthly home, there is eternal hope in Christ. In fact, I am convinced that the idea of “home” as we experience it in this world is merely a shadow of the true “home” that is yet to come. Yes, there is hope for a perfect Father, a perfect family, and a perfect place.

> JI Packer, one of the most well-known theologians of the 20th century, beautifully writes:
>  “What will make heaven to be heaven is the presence of Jesus, and of a reconciled divine Father who loves us for Jesus’s sake no less than he loves Jesus himself. To see, and know, and love, and be loved by the Father and the Son, in company with the rest of God’s vast family, is the whole essence of the Christian hope.”
A realization that until recently weighed heavily on my heart has now become a treasured jewel for how it orients my soul’s attention to the wedding supper of the Lamb [Revelation 19:9]. Again, what a day it will be! A day of ultimate union, abundant joy, and the fulfillment of promises. A song shared by a member of our Christian fellowship, titled “Home” and written by Jeremy Riddle, says something along the lines of what I think I would say when I get to heaven; “how good it is to finally come home”. To be where you were meant to be. It’s like a wandering puzzle piece finally fitting into its socket.

> It is because of what I am made to be—a heavenly citizen—that I consider “earth” to be a place I voyage through rather than take it to be my destiny. 

Unfortunately, the attempt to make this world the home it was never meant to be and seeking more from it than it can offer can only lead one to despair rather than genuine peace. I am even more so convicted by what Amy Carmichael, the Irish missionary to India, wrote insisting this realization to be a crucial part of the life of a disciple:

> “We profess to be strangers and pilgrims, seeking after a country of our own, yet we settle down in the most un-stranger-like fashion, exactly as if we were quite at home and meant to stay as long as we could. I don't wonder apostolic miracles have died. Apostolic living certainly has.” 

It is my wish that you, too, are reminded each day that this earth is not our home. As the Scriptures tell us, we are "sojourners and exiles" [1 Peter 2:11] and “citizens of heaven” [Philippians 3:20], and as Christ Himself said, we are "not of this world" [John 17:14-16]. And my deepest desire for you is that every moment of joy would be a reminder of a greater joy to come on That Day, and every instance of sorrow and pain draws your heart toward the hope we have in Christ, where complete joy awaits. Packer, in his piece for Christianity Today in 1990, expressed a desire much like this:

> “When persons suffering loss of memory cannot recall where their earthly home is, we pity them; but Christians who forget that heaven is their true home, and never think positively about heaven at all, are much more to be pitied. Yet this, it seems, is how most of us proceed most of the time.” So what is the problem? He asks, “Why are there so few Christians these days who can honestly affirm that they have anchored their hearts in heaven and are continually excited about it? Worldliness, alas, is the cause. Secular materialism, preoccupied with the present, and Marxist mockery of ‘pie-in-the-sky-when-you-die,’ combine to make Christians feel embarrassed about their hope of glory, as if having it is somehow bad manners; so they do not talk about it, and soon they stop thinking about it. Rarely in today’s Christianity does excitement about heaven breakthrough. When did you last hear a sermon on the subject?”

As I end my reflection here, I leave you with a few questions to ponder. Which parts of your own life—whether a blessing that delights your heart or suffering bestowed upon you as your measured cup—remind you of heaven and the hope you have in Christ for complete joy? Do you think of that hope often? If you were to think of that hope more frequently, how would it affect your words, daily thoughts, and deeds, as well as what you choose to devote your heart to?

> I’d love to hear your thoughts. 
> Feel free to contact me via fevenmoges49@gmail.com and I will do my best to respond. 



